I will contribute a tale about an Italian Donald Duck comic i once read. It is called 'A grand oversight (or dumb luck)' and it deals with

Scrooge McDuck stumbling upon a mysterious alien object that crashed into one of his sattelites. The object is shaped like a crystal, but evidently crafted by sentient beings and made from an unknown metal. When exposed to x-rays it turns out that it contains several little balls of different sizes, colors and weight that continously slide down a tiny metal ramp and are moved up again through a magnetic system. Scrooge of course immediately starts looking for a way to exploit this artefact and invests in an exhibition to display it while his researchers try to find out what the use of the object is. As expected, the people of Duckburg flock to see the object, only to find out that it doesn't seem to do anything productive. However, inspired by the exhibition and Scrooge's entrepeneural position in the world economy, they decide to copy him and start creating useless objects of their own. They even begin marketing their most useless behaviour, like tapping a toe on the sidewalk for hours on end. Scrooge is dissapointed by the increasing lack of interest in his alien object and decides to sell it to an opponent. With this transition Scrooge just about makes the money back he lost because of the damage on his sattelite and the costs of the exhibition, but he makes no profit. A second wave of marketing of the object starts and eventually perverts the entire market place, which is flooded with useless, unfunctional objects and labour; so much so that it invades all the productive branches of the world economy and an economic depression commences. The solution to this problem? Scrooge decides to buy the object back from his opponent and shoots it into space, back where it came from, so it can no longer pervert the entreprecariatorial market of Earth; an investment for the future.

----

She took a long hard look; first at his sweaty pink foodora cap, then at the oversized thermosbag in the corner of the room and finally at his sagged foam sculpture with toothpicks and forks sticking out on the side. 'So, how are you doing?' she asked. He didn't notice, because he was already running outside to answer a phone call. It was from a shop for fancy shoes he was making a website for. They had some suggestions on how to increase the image size of the pictures their daughter made of the store with her smartphone. With a loud pang a rope that held up a plastic sack of industrial waste, scissors and plush animals, broke and created a tiny catastrophy in the back of the tiny coffee shop that was transformed into an improvised art gallery. In panic, a bespectacled person with short yellow pants and peroxide blonde hair rushed to the mess and started pointing at it while continouisly exclaiming 'see, i told you, but no one wanted to listen'. Not long after, a delivery girl, also wearing a foodora cap, walked in and delivered pizza. 'Ah, food is ready' he exclaimed, putting down his phone and walking back in the store to put a piece in his mouth. Steinbeck was right, she thought: It takes courage to raise children... 
