How to scare the shit out of a charity guy (an easy tutorial)


A nice sunny day in any (relatively) big first world city; The sky is blue and the surroundings are like perfectly working HD television screen; bubbles, produced by numerous bubble machines, are floating in the air. Shimmering, glistening, the world offers itself to you, as if it is for free. You wander around, you check stuff on sale (or without sale, waiting for it to go on sale), you order an iced coffee. Here you are, walking the street, citizen of the world, with your iced coffee dripping on your new tshirt. But you don’t notice, being submerged into your holiday happiness bliss. 
Suddenly there’s a disruption of bliss, an intruder approaches you, breaking into your bubble with their smile and their cheer; clean clothes, big hopes and endless youth. 
You are caught unarmed. You exchange greetings with the intruder, they smile and look you in the eyes. They begin to execute their script  (after hearing numerous charity pitches, I can draft such template myself).  First they ask you if you happen to know anything about malnutrition/cancer/poverty/lack of healthcare for children. If it’s a medical problem, then the children are in need of a new treatment. But (plot twist) the research isn’t funded enough. If it’s a third-world charity, the children are hungry. I suppose adults are hungry too, but children sell better. And here – wait for it – comes the main selling point: you don’t need to be rich to help. Wow so amazing! Everyone can do charity now, even you. With only few euros  you can fight cancer and poverty. You felt like shit previous three minutes, now you feel empowered by the possibility which has been revealed to you. 
While listening to their template, being executed, you begin to feel icky from all the mixed feelings battling inside. Common sense assures that you are a responsible adult and you should not sign up for anything you don’t need or don’t understand completely… But as a citizen of this brave new first world you might feel the need to help those, who are less fortunate. I empathise you. Emotionally you are being suppressed and dominated, being told you are not worthy your citizenship if you don’t donate to their organisation. And now I am going to teach you how to stop feeling bad about yourself after such encounters. You will learn how to fight back.*


So, here’s the tutorial. Our main weapon in here is enthusiasm. Believe me, this shit can be deadly to those who operate with templates only. They are afraid the most of those who take their stance. Now we are going to disrupt this scenario in a most graceful way: By making them a very generous offer.


*Don’t get me wrong. I have nothing against charity boys & girls. But I have a lot against marketing charity as a way to feel better about myself. Hey marketers, listen up: I don’t think you have a right to make great and hard working people feel like heartless bastards (even for a second), for not subscribing to your package. You suck. I am going to break your scripts and take control over your campaign, teaching others along the way. 




First step


You listen their pitch. You smile. You assure them that you have learned a lot of new and useful information today. You thank them. You smile again. Now we are going to attack.




Second step


You look them in the eyes and say: “Thank you for telling me your story! I am interested in the work you do. And I would like to help you: I am a recently graduated graphic designer (replace with your occupation), and at this point of my career I am not making a minimum income myself (Adjust this part to your situation: If you are already successful, that’s even better. You must be incredibly kind and compassionate to offer your skills for free). I want to help you with my skills – I have spent many years to get my degrees and certifications, and I sincerely believe that I can be useful as a professional. I would be very interested in helping you with any graphic design (replace with your occupation) related tasks...

Now you are in control of the situation. Relax and watch them run away in fear.